So what I'd like to do is begin the process of U-V mapping with something fairly simple in the scene.
And what we've got over here we could use one of these blocks at the top of the pillars.
So this is in my outliner I've got this called Pillar cab number five not an exciting piece in our scene
but I think it would be a good one to begin the mapping process.
So what I like to do when you mapping is change my interface here from the default interface which you
can see appear to U-V editing.
Now we've got several different screen layouts here that we can work with we've got animation and compositing
motion tracking.
But let's work with U-V editing for now and see what we can do.
So again a switch to that screen layout.
I've got to use the image editor over here.
This is where we'll be able to see the U.V. map as we create it.
I'm going to hover over here and press the period key on the numpad to zoom in to this particular block
and I'll go ahead and press the division key on the number pad to isolate this object for now.
So the trick to U-V mapping is that we want to take all of the polygons of this object and create a
two dimensional representation of that object over here in the U-V image editor.
And we've got several ways that we can do that.
If I come over here and I'm in edit mode now and if I select everything by hitting the A key and I just
press the you key I get this U-V unwrapping menu.
So there are several ways that we can do this.
We've got these basic projections of cube cylinder and sphere projection and these can be good.
But honestly I don't think we'll be using a whole lot.
We've got the unwrap tool which is the kind of the fundamental one that we'll be using.
We've got smart U-V project and light map pack and follow active Quad's we'll be using these for I think
pretty much exclusively.
But let me begin with the one on the bottom here.
I want to begin with a follow act of Quad's and work my way up if I just select this and click OK.
Look at what happens.
What I've got is just a big blocky square here.
So what this has done is just taken every single polygon that's in this object and laid it one on top
of the other.
So if I take one point and hit the key and move it around you can see there's another one underneath
here.
And if I take this one and move it there's another one underneath here.
It's just taken each one of these planes and laid them out in the U-V editor one on top of the other.
Now I could also move things based on edges if I select edges here I could select an edge and hit G
and move it around.
I could select faces and I could select U-V islands and pretty much a U-V Island is a collection of
connected faces.
We pretty much have only one face at a time.
So each one of these is a two dimensional representation of each polygon and you see how they're kind
of connected here.
All right.
So that is follow active Quad's.
Let's take a look at what happens if we use light map pack.
So I click that and say OK.
And now what it's done is it's packed.
Each polygon all into what I'm going to call the zero to one space.
The reason why I call this the zero to one space is let me I'm going to click normalized here and what
that will do is represented this space as 0 0 in the x and the Y right down here.
And if we move this up here we can see that it gets closer and closer to 1 and 1.
So this is actually a coordinate graph from 0 0 to 1 1.
So over here if I type zero in here this is 0 1 and if I type 1 and zero in here this is 1 0.
So this is called the zero to 1 space.
Now another thing that people usually ask when dealing with U-V mapping is why is it called U-V.
If this is a coordinate grid and this is X and this is why why call it U-V Why not call it X and Y Well
x y and z were already taken to describe the axes in the 3-D world.
So they needed some other name to describe the axes in the two d world over here.
So they chose you envy.
It could have been a and b or DNA.
It could have been any other two letters in the alphabet but they chose you and me.
So this is what happens when we use light map pack.
It actually packs each of those polygons into the zero to one space.
Let's try smart U-V project.
If we click on that and click ok we get pretty much the same thing depending on the shape of your object.
You may get a slight difference between the two between light map pack and smart U-V but for this particular
object there isn't much of a difference.
Now the unwrap one is the one that I think is the most powerful and the one I'll be using the most often.
So if we click this way and let's see what happens not much but the real power comes from the ability
to cut the object apart at the edges.
Kind of like I mentioned with the cereal box being able to cut the edges and then lay it out flat.
You can choose which edges you want to cut using the unwrap feature.
So I'm going to go to edge mode and I'm going to select an edge here and maybe one here and here and
I'm going to go ahead and choose this one and this one.
So I've got five edges selected what I want to do is say to Blender.
I want you to cut this U-V map at these edges.
I want you to make these my seams so what you can do is you can press control E and choose Mark seam
and what that will do.
It will make these edges kind of this reddish orange color which signifies that these are your seams.
So now if I select everything and press the key and now I click unwrap.
Notice what happens now.
This is kind of stretching and a mess here.
Let's see if we can fix that by re doing our seams.
Let's add two more seams here and here.
And press control E and Mark seam and let's see if this helps us select all of the faces press you and
click unwrap.
And that helps quite a bit.
So you can see how the placement of your seams on the objects can really help dictate how the U-V unwrap
happens.
This is a much cleaner unwrap than the one we had before.
In fact the one we had before would have given us stretching in our texture.
Let me go back a bit here.
I'm just going to press Manzie to do so now this particular UVM map looks like we've got some stretching
here.
We can click on this stretch checkbox and see our stretching so when polygons are all blue there is
no stretching.
But the more they move towards Orange or red the more stretching there is you can see there's quite
a bit of stretching going on here.
But if we U-V map this again with our new seams clicking and wrap you can see now that all of the polygons
are solid blue and that means that there is little to no stretching.
So that brings up really the two concerns we have when U-V mapping one is to try and avoid stretching
because if there is any stretching in our Uvas the textures that we apply will then also be stretched.
And the other problem is that we have to watch out for our seams.
So this seems that we've created can sometimes be visible in our renderers So we need to try and hide
or minimize the number of seems that the camera will see.
So you've got to think about two things here.
One is stretching and one is placing seams and we'll be talking about that as we move forward.